_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Homepage"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
Hi, I'm Dongyu Gong. I am currently a PhD student at [Wu Tsai Institute](https://wti.yale.edu) and Department of Psychology, Yale University. My PhD advisor is Professor [Anna Christina (Kia) Nobre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Christina_Nobre). I was a PhD student at the [University of Oxford](https://www.win.ox.ac.uk/people/dongyu-gong) with Kia, and I moved to Yale after [Kia got her new position at Wu Tsai Institute](https://wti.yale.edu/news/kia-nobre-joins-wu-tsai-institute).

I am interested in studying both human intelligence and machine intelligence, especially how intelligence emerges from biological systems and artificial systems. I believe neuroscience is an important force in driving the development of [autonomous machine intelligence](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=BZ5a1r-kVsf) with human-level cognitive abilities.

My PhD research currently focuses on the neural mechanisms underlying human visual attention and memory, especially how they interact to allow flexible and adaptive human behavior. I use a combination of fMRI, EEG/MEG, human psychophysics, and computational modelling techniques in my research.

Before graduate school, I received my degree of Bachelor of Science from [Tsinghua University](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/) with [highest honors](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/sPpt0fUmPgi2dTujhMV3Ww). During my undergraduate years, I was supervised by Professor [Pei Sun](http://www.psych.tsinghua.edu.cn/xlxxen/info/1073/1132.htm) and Professor [Nihong Chen](http://www.psych.tsinghua.edu.cn/xlxxen/info/1072/1100.htm) at Tsinghua. In Summer 2019, I visited [Whitney lab](https://whitneylab.berkeley.edu/) at UC Berkeley. In Winter 2019, I visited Professor [Jan Theeuwes](https://research.vu.nl/en/persons/jan-theeuwes/)'s lab at VU Amsterdam. In Summer 2020, I worked with Professor [Jeremy Wolfe](https://eye.hms.harvard.edu/jeremywolfe), who leads the [Visual Attention Lab](https://search.bwh.harvard.edu/new/index.html) at Harvard Medical School.

In my leisure time, I enjoy cooking, running, travelling, and hiking. I also love sci-fi, [photography](https://daniel-gong.github.io/photography), and piano music.

Commit message:

Update about.md with new information and news

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Homepage"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
Hi, I'm Dongyu Gong. I am currently a PhD student at [Wu Tsai Institute](https://wti.yale.edu) and Department of Psychology, Yale University. My PhD advisor is Professor [Anna Christina (Kia) Nobre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anna_Christina_Nobre). I was a PhD student at the [University of Oxford](https://www.win.ox.ac.uk/people/dongyu-gong) with Kia, and I moved to Yale after [Kia got her new position at Wu Tsai Institute](https://wti.yale.edu/news/kia-nobre-joins-wu-tsai-institute).

I am interested in both human intelligence and machine intelligence, especially how intelligence emerges from biological systems and artificial systems. I believe neuroscience and cogntive science will provide valuable insights for the development of [autonomous machine intelligence](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=BZ5a1r-kVsf) with human-level cognitive abilities.

I am updating a list of [interesting (NeuroAI/LLM-Cognition/miscellaneous) papers](https://daniel-gong.github.io/Discovering-Interesting-Papers/).

My PhD research currently focuses on the neural mechanisms underlying human visual attention and memory, especially how they interact to allow flexible and adaptive human behavior. I use a combination of fMRI, EEG/MEG, human psychophysics, and computational modelling techniques in my research.

Before graduate school, I received my degree of Bachelor of Science from [Tsinghua University](https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/) with [highest honors](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/sPpt0fUmPgi2dTujhMV3Ww). During my undergraduate years, I was supervised by Professor [Pei Sun](http://www.psych.tsinghua.edu.cn/xlxxen/info/1073/1132.htm) and Professor [Nihong Chen](http://www.psych.tsinghua.edu.cn/xlxxen/info/1072/1100.htm) at Tsinghua. In Summer 2019, I visited [Whitney lab](https://whitneylab.berkeley.edu/) at UC Berkeley. In Winter 2019, I visited Professor [Jan Theeuwes](https://research.vu.nl/en/persons/jan-theeuwes/)'s lab at VU Amsterdam. In Summer 2020, I worked with Professor [Jeremy Wolfe](https://eye.hms.harvard.edu/jeremywolfe), who leads the [Visual Attention Lab](https://search.bwh.harvard.edu/new/index.html) at Harvard Medical School.

In my leisure time, I enjoy cooking, running, travelling, and hiking. I also love sci-fi, [photography](https://daniel-gong.github.io/photography), and piano music.


**News**

--------------

**2024.4** I gave a talk at CNS Annual Meeting!

**2024.2** I presented my paper at AAAI conference on Artificial Intelligence!
