---
title: "Dissociable neural processes during attentional selection within working memory and long-term memory"
collection: presentations
type: "Talk"
permalink: /presentations/2023-11-11-SfN
venue: "2023 Society for Neuroscience Annual Meeting"
date: 2023-11-11
location: "Washington D.C., United States"
---
Research has increasingly emphasized the ability to orient attention selectively to prioritise internal contents for retrieval - in both workingmemory (WM) and long-term memory (LTM). However, little is known about the potential degree of overlap between mechanisms for internal attention in WM and LTM. We developed a task for comparing shifts of internal attention in WM and LTM for retrieving equivalent stimulus attributes. Eye tracking and EEG recordings from human participants (*N* = 30) tracked oculomotor and neural signals triggered by retrospective attention cues (retrocues) that prioritised object features of WM or LTM items on a trial-by-trial basis. The eye-tracking results confirmed our recent observation that gaze biases toward the attended item were more pronounced in WM than LTM. The EEG data revealed striking differences in neural processes following retrocues prioritising WM and LTM items. Replicating previous findings, transient lateralization of alpha power (8-12Hz) at posterior sites occurred for shifts of attention in WM, but no such effects occurred for attention within LTM. Instead, frontal modulation oftheta power (4-8 Hz) occurred during shifts of attention in LTM but not in WM. Further dissociable markers of internal shifts of attention in WM and LTM were observed in the event-related potentials. Our findings show that the robust consequences of orienting selective attention in WM and LTM occur through different routes, thus also providing valuable insights into the long-debated relationship between these two memory systems.
